In order to see just where sprint planning fits into the overall Agile project,
let's start by walking through the Agile project lifecycle.
First,
we have our Agile project from planning through
releases in the project retrospective.
Next, we have the release with release planning,
one or more iterations, and the release retrospective.
Next, we have the sprint or iteration with the sprint planning,
the daily work, and ending with the sprint demo,
review, and retrospective.
Lastly, the daily work is comprised of the daily standup,
work tasks, and with update progress and actions.
To me, the real heartbeat of Agile/Scrum is the sprint.
This is where most of the action, that is time,
resources, effort, are expended over the entire Agile project lifecycle.
This course is focusing on the spring planning,
but sprint planning does not live in a vacuum.
You must understand the full context and implications of the entire Agile
project artifacts to enable efficient sprint planning,
such as release planning.
Since sprints are contained in releases,
the release retrospective since you'll be getting
feedback from the release retrospective,
which will positively affect sprint planning.
The daily standups.
Since you'll be getting bottom-up feedback on the progress of the sprint,
you will learn a great deal about how good your sprint planning really is.
Now, for a point of view.
Releases: When and How Many?
Sprint, sprint, sprint, release was common in the early days of Agile/Scrum,
but today, with continuous integration, it is much easier to release more often.
Continuous integration is the practice of merging all developer working
copies to a shared source mainline several times a day.
The automated tools today make it very easy.
More random releases such as sprint, sprint,
release, or sprint, release,
or some combination thereof can be performed based on what the customer wants,
but some customers just can't absorb a new software release that often.
Remember, they have to install, possibly test, and sign off on every release.
Of course, you can still make releases and just not release them to the customer.
This will keep your release and sprint tempo moving forward.
To me,
I prefer a very regular release cycle with the same
number of sprints contained within.
This sets appropriate expectations and deliverables.
Again, Agile evolves, as it should.
The business world, people, skills, ideas,
and philosophies will keep evolving and Agile with it.
Now let's take a look at backlogs, which is one of the most key elements of sprint planning.